Today I am curious about computer logging. I started playing around with Geektool and there's a log feed desktop widget. Curious about my own logs, I enabled it. I asked ChatGPT how I could check my own logs on MacOS. It recommended Console app. I enabled logging of both my Mac Mini and my iPhone. I was astounded by the volume of logs! So many logs! 66,964 messages in 6 minutes of tracking. Why does a computer put out this high voluem of logs and how does anyone keep on track of all this?? Turns out there are always processes runing and generating logs. All of the time. 

Logs are used for: 
  System monitoring
  Error reporting
  Debugging
  Security monitoring
  Performance optimization

I'm tailoring my learning to have a security focus, so I wanted to understand what sort of information or log 'types', if you will, do cyber security professionals look for. Back to ChatGPT! 

Cyber sec professionals look for these log types:

  Authentication 
    Successful logins
    Failed logins
    Account lockouts
    
  Firewall
    Traffic 
    Denied connections
    Port scanning activity
    
  Intrustion Detectioni System (IDS_ and Intrustion Prevention System (IPS) 
    Alerts
    Blocked atacks
    
  Antivirus and anti-malware 
    Detection events
    Quarantine actions
    
  Web server
    Access
    Error 
    HTTP Response codes
    
  Email
    DNS queries
    DNS responses
    
  Operating system logs
    Security events
    System events
  Endpoint security
    Endpoint activity
    Alerts
    
  Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)
    Aggregated logs
    Incident alerts
    
  Authentication and authorization logs for privileged accounts
    Changes to privileges
    Access to sensitive resources
    
  User and entity Behavior Analytics (UEBA)
    User behavior patterns
    Anomalous access patterns

:::I'm embarking on the Intro to Logs course on Tryhackme to get some foundational knowledge:::

A log entry usually includes the following information:

  - Timestamp of when an event was logged
  - Name of the system or application that generated the log 
  - Type of event
  - Additional details, such as the user who initiated the event or the         device's IP address that generated the event

Logs can answer critical questions about an event, such as:

  - What happened?
  - When did it happen?  
  - Where did it happen?
  - Who is responsible?
  - Were their actions successful?
  - What was the result of their action?

...
